| Project name              | Description   | Libraries used | Status |
| ------------------------- | ------------- | -------------- | ------ |
| Apartments for sale research   | Yandex Real Estate data - an archive of announcements about apartments for sale in Saint-Petersburg and nearby settlements. Determine the market value parameters of real estate properties. This will help to create an automated system to track anomalies and fraudulent activity.| Pandas, matplotlib | Finished |

**Objective:** determination of the parameters that determine the market value of real estate properties.


**Summary:** 
* The study analyzed an archive of advertisements for apartments for sale in St. Petersburg and neighboring communities for the period from 2015 to 2019.
* The analysis of missing values in the data set indicated possible technical errors / improperly formed queries to the database when unloading data from the geoinformation system. The rest of the missing values not filled in by Yandex.Real Estate users may be resolved by connecting the advertising base to systems having information from the Unified State Register of Real Estate. Although this service is paid, it can be monetized for users of Yandex.Real Estate by providing all the necessary information about the real estate object. This issue should be worked out additionally.
* In order to build an automated system for tracking fraudulent activity, the outliers in the data set under consideration were analyzed. Among the variables of potential interest is the time of sale of the apartments - most of the objects are sold no earlier than 43 days and no later than 237 days. Among these objects, values of 45, 60 and 90 days stand out unusually. Perhaps these values are somehow connected with fraudulent sale of real estate. In addition, we should note such indicators as the ratio of living area to total area and kitchen area to total area of the apartment. For example, for the ratio of kitchen area to total area, values above ~0.38 are unrealistically high - that is, about 38% of the area of the apartment is related to the kitchen. The normal range for the ratio of living space to gross floor area is ~0.3-0.85. Ceiling heights greater than three meters also seem to be likely outliers. Any values outside of these ranges may also indicate fraudulent activity on properties. Such properties may need to be manually moderated with a site visit to verify their characteristics.
* The price of apartments in the general base and the sample in the center is influenced by the same factors - the area and the number of rooms in the apartment. As the number of rooms increases, the price of the apartment increases. At the same time, the area of apartments in the center is slightly larger than the area of objects outside the center. The dependence of the price on the area of the object confirms the theory that in order to determine the fraudulent activity one should identify the anomalous proportions of the area of the real estate object.
* For the whole sample, the distance from the center has a more pronounced influence on the cost of the apartment. While in the central part, the cost changes insignificantly when moving away from the center. Over time, there is an increase in the cost per square meter of the observed objects (from 2015 to 2019).