| Project name              | Description   | Libraries used | Status |
| ------------------------- | ------------- | -------------- | ------ |
| Determining a prospective tariff for a telecommunications company   | A telecommunications company offers its customers two tariff plans: "Smart" and "Ultra. The commercial department needs to understand which plan brings in more money in order to adjust the advertising budget. It is necessary to analyze customer behavior and conclude which plan is preferable for the telecom company.| Pandas, matplotlib, scipy | Finished |

**Objective:** compare two tariff plans and determine the most promising plan with the highest revenue. 


**Summary:** 
* The age groups of the two plans behave almost identically. With increasing age, the median call duration increases slightly. On the other hand, the volume of traffic consumed by Smart tariff users is almost unchanged by age group. Most messages are sent by younger users of Ultra tariffs;
* Among the company's customers, there are smart tariff users who exceed the set limits (~30% of users), while none of the ultra tariff users exceeded the limit of 1,000 messages. More than 50% of the tariff users send about the same number of messages per month (60). As for the duration of calls, there are Smart tariff users who exceed the limits of the package (their share is ~20%). At the same time, none of the ultra tariff users exceeded the limits of the provided package. Smart tariff users mostly do not use more than 700 minutes, while ultra tariff users use only 1000 minutes;
* Telecom company should focus on developing customized packages for customers based on their demographics. For example, for smart subscribers, it might be a good idea to offer them a plan with more messages, calls, and traffic. For Ultra subscribers, you can reduce the message limit and call duration included in the package. For example, you can reduce the call limit to 1000 minutes per month and the message limit to 100 for Ultra users. This issue requires additional research, including marketing surveys, etc.;
* As for the average revenue, it is higher for clients using the Ultra tariff. The average revenue of Ultra tariff users is ~2067 rubles per month, while the average revenue of Smart tariff users is ~1261 rubles per month. The statistical test did not reject the hypothesis of unequal average revenue of tariff users. The telecom company should focus on customers with ultra packages. A marketing strategy should be developed to attract new customers or switch smart subscribers to a more expensive line. Some of them are just below the volume of services offered in the smart package;
* Average revenues for Moscow and other regions do not differ significantly from each other. Thus, the average revenue for Moscow is ~ 1542 rubles, while for other cities it is ~ 1505 rubles. The hypothesis of the inequality of the average income of the tariff users in Moscow and other regions was rejected with the help of a statistical test. In this regard, the telecommunications company can implement its marketing strategy to attract new customers of ultra tariffs evenly in all regions of Russia.